hi everyone thank you for joining my
name is maya colato i am the vp of
customer experience at map history and
i'm really excited to be able to talk to
you all about building customer advisory
boards together
today i'm going to be talking about
three main sections the first will be
building the foundation of your customer
advisory board or cab
the second will be achieving mutually
beneficial meetings making sure you're
getting as much as you can out of this
and making sure your customers are
having fun and you're having high
retention rates throughout the year
the third will be bringing home learning
so taking it back home what value are we
getting out of cabs and what lessons
learned
are we going to be
sorry excuse me what lessons are we
going to be adjusting for the years
ahead
right but first i'm going to start off
by answering the question what is a
customer advisory board or cab for today
we're defining this as a group of key
customers or selected key customers that
are going to be providing strategic
feedback on the direction of your
product roadmap
emerging industry trends and the general
direction of the company i do want to
highlight that a cab is not going to be
a product focus group only giving
experience and feedback on existing
futures
neither is it a board of directors
giving you
executive decisions on company policy
this is going to be a forum for your
customers because at the end of the day
they want to be heard and if you're
doing this correctly you're going to be
able to show them that they're part of
something bigger than the software
contract with you
and that's going to make you or allow
you to grow as they grow to
because when they invest into your
software
they want you to continually meet the
needs as they develop their own company
and a cab is a wonderful way to do that
when cabs are utilized correctly you're
going to be able to do yes that open
forum of feedback but it even takes it a
step further and allows you to create an
opportunity to develop nurture-centric
culture at your business and this as
we're learning develops in higher
business growth for yourself
the second thing is building a loyal
customer base we're bringing these
awesome advocates together to discuss
your company and allow them to feed off
of the energy from one another so
whether you have a group filled with
legacy customers or new customers you
want to at the end of the day make sure
that they again are feeding off of each
other and starting that loyal customer
base from day one of your cab
at mapestry we first realized that our
customers were invested in where we were
going in our annual summits
you see each year we pulled together our
customers prospects and experts in the
industry to talk about environmental
compliance we talk about evolving
regulations we talk about best software
use cases not just about mapistry but
any softwares that they're also looking
at developing within their industry
in 2018 our ceo
and design leaders held a conference or
held a talk just about map history and
we're transparent about the direction of
where we wanted to go and the current
status of the software
we saw that the attendees thrived off of
this kind of interaction our discussion
leaders ended up not having enough time
to go around the room and
listen to all the feedback and ideas
that our key customers had
at the end of the conference we realized
that the level of feedback was
invaluable because yes of course we were
doing discussions one-on-one with our
key customers but those were really just
puzzle pieces of the puzzle this group
dynamic allowed us to see the whole
puzzle at once in real time
and that just saved so much effort for
us internally and the way that they fed
off of each other on questions and ideas
and brainstorms it was just amazing
so we knew we wanted to continue that
but we also wanted to realize that we
didn't have the structured forum to do
that for us
so fast forward to 2019 our leadership
team reconvened and decided that a cab
was where we wanted to go but we do have
limited resources as a small startup so
how are we going to do that
we needed someone to own the process and
be able to organize ourselves internally
if you're looking at cabs from other
companies you may see these folks or
these leaders coming from different
teams i've seen it from marketing teams
product teams and customer success teams
for us at mapestry i had the privilege
of owning that role and organizing our
leadership team internally to be able to
drive goals forward
fast forwarding again to 2020 we had our
first round of cab calls
in q2 we ended up with two subcommittees
which i'll dive into how we were
structuring that with 27 members total
about half each of executive and
practitioners and a mix of industries
but the big chunk of the industries that
we focused on were building materials
waste management and transportation and
so we wanted to make sure that the
makeup of our cab also represented the
growth areas that we also wanted to
focus on
cool
so i'm going to start by letting you
know the breakdown of the processes and
lessons learned
starting with the building of the
foundation and the first item that i
wanted to talk about here is reaching
internal alignment because even though
this may seem like a simple task it's
super important to spend enough time
here to ensure you understand what every
internal stakeholder wants to get out of
this initiative
it's easy to make assumptions but for
example your product leaders may want to
focus on the next best thing that will
move the needle forward for bigger and
better deals for you
your customer success leader may want to
strategize on the best or the most
painful pain points
during your customer journey
that we're identifying and stunting
customer growth
your marketing leader may want to know
more about the most meaningful content
that's leading to higher quality mqls
my point is here
you want to be actively listening start
your foundation on the right foot
because you don't want to end up a year
from now with different ideas of the
value that you provided to the company
if you are bringing your folks together
for a couple hours of a brainstorm
you're able to dive into these baseline
questions
talk about the time and effort everyone
is willing to invest into this program
so when you're engaging every quarter
for new meetings you know who to go to
when you need to develop a demo for the
product or you need to put together
slides for the marketing discussion
questions that you decided to focus on
them too
and the money part of this slide was
that in mathis 3 we wanted to do an
in-person com our in-person cab calls
but with covid obviously that didn't
happen we did have the discussion of we
weren't at a place where we couldn't
financially compensate folks for joining
the cab but we wanted to reimburse them
for travel and lodging to really uh
encourage them to come meet us in person
again that didn't happen we're hoping
crossing our fingers at this year is
going to be our first in-person summit
uh for our cabs but we'll let you know
great so you've talked to your apostles
now it's time to write your bible and
what this means is taking all those
missions goals and expectations that you
outlined with your leadership team
members and drafting
on a document that you can share
internally and also with potential board
meetings
this is going to allow you to be
explicit with a time effort and
financial considerations that you want
to be transparent with your board
members
you're going to be able to bring back
this document throughout the year and
say like yeah okay we're committing to
these four objectives and this is how
we're fulfilling them throughout the
year or you may find that your summarize
or you're focusing on
objectives number one and two and
totally forgetting three and four it's
going to be super helpful to pull this
up and say okay let's
move forward and provide more value by
changing different parts of our
processes
the other thing i really wanted to
highlight here were your benefits you've
already talked about how all of this is
going to
value be valued within your company
but how are you going to allow customers
to be excited about joining you on this
process
this is where your benefits really come
in
so for mapestry we decided to highlight
or summarize these four ones if you're
developing a cab of your own you might
find something else that works for you
but just to go through this really
quickly the first one was creating a
network so we wanted to allow them to be
able to join and build connections with
other peers within their industries that
maybe they would not have met without
this customer advisory board
the second was building and sharing best
practices for the software
so they're all using map stream
different ways they're all solving
different problems but they find that
they might have similar solutions
creating this safe space to trade ideas
allows them to increase the adoption of
the software and also bring new stories
back home
the third was being able to influence
the product that they rely on i already
mentioned that when they invest in your
software they want to be able to use you
for as long as they can and that only is
going to work is if you are aligned with
their growing needs and continue to
change and adapt your software to
be of value for them for as long as they
stay with you
and then the lastly is early access to
new features and functionality and i'll
even throw in early access to our at
least senior leadership they love
talking to executives they love seeing
the new exciting software that they can
bring back home and if you're
highlighting this within your charter
they'll be able to to see everything
that they'll be getting from you
on the right hand side i just have a
couple of quotes from some of our cab
members
one of my favorites just says grand
slams await we got that right after we
sent over the invitation they read
through the charter
that to me was just a great signal that
they were seeing things the same way
that we were and we were going to be
able to create a great partnership
together
cool
so we've made joining a cab seems so
exciting
everyone's going to be wanting to join
right well
they can't and if you're leading this
initiative it's your job to identify and
invite the most strategic customers you
can't invite everyone
and so the way that we did this at
mapestry was first talk about what
customer segments we wanted to represent
within our cab
after a lot of discussion and back and
forth we decided to focus on two things
one was industry type because we were
historically very successful with smv
companies but we wanted to lean more
into the enterprise deals because we
knew that that's how we were going to be
able to grow faster
the second was role at the company
one we will call practitioners these are
decision makers that we had that could
buy software on the regional level and
the second was executives so they were
able to buy software
on the corporate level two different
languages of power that we wanted to
separate and make sure we both listened
equally
once we had this a perfect profile we
went to our cx team and said okay look
this is what we're trying to do these
are the people that we want to invite
who do you got who can we put on our
draft list so we can consider to invite
for a cab members
and your csms are a great tool because
they're in the front lines they're
talking to people they're writing down
your notes and they'll be able to tell
you who are advocates and who would be
great players for this program
lastly was we looked at both legacy and
new customers to bring diverse
perspectives
your legacy customers have been with you
for so long they'll be able to give you
rich information of how you've grown
already they know you and they'll be
more than willing to join you here but
there is seriously some value by adding
new customers to your cabs too because
their experiences with your sales cycle
with your onboarding processes are fresh
on their mind and they'll be able to put
that perspective into the mix
and one great
value out of that too is if your new
customers are learning from your legacy
customers it just creates this positive
feedback loop where they're feeding off
of their energy and they can see how
they can grow with us by just talking to
legacy customers as well
okay
so you have your draft list of key
players now we have to get into
recruitment mode and i said highly
suggest pulling your lever with your ceo
your ceo whoever is your c suite level
sponsor to create personalized
invitations to make them feel special
because at the end of the day they are
they're a great recess resource for you
and you want to make sure that they
understand how excited you are about
being able to bring this program to them
so the way we did that was personalized
emails but
our ceo ryan would also hype us up when
he would visit sites or if he had calls
with folks
really just hyping up the program and
allowing them to see everything that
they could get from it
i've also seen po folks write letters if
you're in an older industry some folks
really would appreciate that but
whatever you do highlight your benefits
because if they don't read your charter
at least you can vocalize those benefits
to them and really entice them to join
you on this journey
and lastly if you're starting to get
yeses follow up immediately let them
know that the excitement continues and
we're really looking forward to the next
steps of this cab program with them
okay
so you have your
you have your foundation your charter
your goals and now you have the folks
that you want to invite to this board
meeting how are you going to achieve
mutually beneficial meetings so that
your retention levels stay high
the first thing that we did or that i
did was pull together our internal
stakeholders again quarterly so that we
can identify
all the amazing things that we were
trying to do in every team
now a lot of things happen every quarter
if you're a startup you're literally a
speedboat changing directions all the
time
what that means is there's too much to
talk about in the lot it's time that you
have with your cab members already so
what you want to do is narrow it down to
one maybe two themes for each quarter
but make sure you're rotating these
themes so again you can follow through
with your objectives
i highly don't suggest going over two
just because you're diluting the
information that you're getting from
your cab and this is just going to be
the best way to really focus on one or
two things
the engaging part so with covid we've
all learned that we'd have to adapt and
to this virtual environment that's hard
for some
more than others so we try to
leverage out breakout rooms for larger
groups so that they can really socialize
and network with folks to again fulfill
that commitment of a network
for themselves
we also use surveys to prep folks before
calls to get into that mentality of a
cab this is the first time for a lot of
them that they were part of this kind of
initiative and so just introducing them
slowly before even the meeting was
helpful because we were allowed to start
uh from the first minute of the call to
the great the content that we had
scheduled for them
and then the last thing maybe one of the
more important ones too is to follow up
on the advancements from previous
conversations because if i'm your
customer and i the first call say all my
feedback that i have for you and the
next few quarters i never really hear
anything back from it it's very
discouraging i'm not going to want to
continue to give you all my feedback if
i don't know what's actually happening
to it
and so if you decide to make changes
from feedback from your cab let them
know show them the child the software is
changing show them how your strategies
are changing it's just going to foster a
great environment for them
and if you decide some things are
you don't want to follow through with
some things still be the allow them to
be part of that conversation that way
you're just following up with as much as
you can
so now that you have your roles
responsibilities you're ready to get
into your call i don't want you to
forget that there are humans behind
every screen pay attention to the
dynamics that you have within your cab
some people are soft-spoken some people
are a lot louder than others your
soft-spoken folks
might struggle with
feedback during the calls but that
doesn't mean that their feedback is any
less worthy take note of that
next call maybe encourage them a little
bit more individually
pose questions to them individually and
ask them by name that way you can really
encourage them to get involved into this
program
another thing that we learned was to
open the floor to the members because we
do have our agenda but we also have
blind spots and if we open the floor to
them they're able to say like hey
actually i i want to surprise you with
this it might be of value and this is
just another way to get as much as you
can as much feedback from your cab
members during that time
and i put this in the slide again just
because it's so important but close
those feedback loops to maintain those
high engagement rates
you want to make sure that you're
building these partnerships throughout
time not just for the one hour two hour
allotted slide that you have with them
okay
so if you got your first meeting down i
am so proud of you you should be proud
to it's a great accomplishment
but you don't want to forget that your
work is not done i'm sure you all know
self-reflection is an amazing skill to
have it creates opportunities for you to
adjust throughout the year to be better
and so three ways that we've done that
in our own practice is one create
retrospectives with your leadership team
after every meeting so after a cab call
bring together your internal
stakeholders ask them questions like
what went well what did you love
what didn't go well and what would you
want to change off of that
if you're doing this right after the
call you're essentially creating a game
plan for the next quarter and just if
you're doing that over and over again
throughout the year you're improving the
quality of your customer advisory board
the second thing is to reevaluate your
charter annually you did it once doesn't
mean you have to
let it go on a shelf to gather some dust
dust it off bring it back and even pull
in some cab members if they've been with
you for the whole year try to get their
understanding of what concerns they have
what questions what adjustments that
they may want to see off of your
charter and lastly ask for feedback
directly it doesn't have to be at the
end of the year do a pulse point six
months and figure out if they're getting
as much as you as they wanted out of
this and again it's just another way to
be better throughout time
okay
so bringing home the learnings
we quickly realized that the cab wasn't
just good for the cab itself it also
had a domino effect on the rest of our
company allowed us to be more
customer-centric and throughout the
different teams
oops
sorry
so going into the value derived that we
got off of this the first one that i'm
going to talk about is the product
roadmap adjustments this happened both
short and long term the short term being
okay we scheduled out these four themes
for the year
help us organize what should be going
first
we did this with our compliance calendar
it allowed us to
direct more conversations with prospects
and a long-term example would be like
hey before our product team actually
dives into this amount of work it would
take to build this help us figure out if
this is a direction that we should be
even thinking about
and if they validate that you're saving
a lot of time and it also hypes up your
dev and product team because they'll be
able to hear from your key customers
like yeah if we do this now we'll be
able to solve for x y and z and that's
just uh very validating for the whole
company
the second thing is internal onboarding
resources so when we hire a new ae they
have access to our recorded cab calls
and that allows them to learn very
quickly how our customers are talking
about us how
they make decision making or how they
make decisions to buy the software and
how they want to see us grow and that
really helps us fuel
the prospect conversations from the
start
the second is customer advocates so i
mentioned before
cab is a great way to build customer
advocates our csms saw these kinds of
changes in the relationships and
conversations that we were having with
folks and if folks jump from company to
company they'll be able to bring those
stories with them and bring your company
with them too
lastly and maybe the one that we didn't
expect the most is a resource in the
sales process
on the right hand side is a screenshot
of an rfp from a recent fortune 500
deal and in section 6.8 they asked how
how they can actively voice participate
and influence the product that they were
that they might buy
that they might buy excuse me
in our response of course we highlighted
our cs program of course we highlighted
qbrs or quarterly business reviews our
nps program one-on-one conversations
with our csms but it was also a great
opportunity to highlight our customer
advisory board so we were able to say
like hey yeah we got this awesome
program that you can be a part of these
are all the amazing companies that are
already part of it already that you can
network and learn from
and this is how we're going to change if
you give us your feedback and you decide
to join us
and that was really enticing to them
on the flip side we did have a good
amount of lessons learned the first was
members value knowledge from diverse
industries so i did mention before that
we had two subcommittees originally we
structured them
by industry type but after the first
round of calls there are customers
vocalized like yeah i really value all
my peers from the building materials
industries but i see them all the time
at conferences i want to know what waste
management is doing i want to know what
transportation is doing bring them here
combine it so that we can
brainstorm together and we can learn
from each other
and so that's what we did we quickly
diverted from industry-based
subcommittees for it to be just only
based on role so now we have executives
and practitioners with mixed industries
in both
the second which is kind of basic but
multiple subcommittees schedule them
with caution because meetings take so
much energy from your internal team if
you do them back to back to back it's
going to be draining space them out
that's what we did after a couple of
rounds
the third was use homeworks more
strategically so at the beginning we put
a lot of importance on that to teach
them what the cab was to teach them what
we wanted to focus on quarter after
quarter but you got to remember these
folks live very busy lives especially
your executives and what you're asking
from them may be a lot depending on what
they have every day so we changed the
initiative off of homework and made it
more optional made it more fun demo
videos
access to beta features and just allowed
them to play in there if needed but we
didn't really need them to finish it to
actually have really important
conversations with the cab so it's a fun
thing to use but don't put too much
importance into it
lastly
turnover acquisitions and churn effect
attendance so i'm sure you all
understand what all those three terms
mean but what this alludes to is that
when if you've drafted out your key
players once throughout the year
continue to build that list of advocates
on the side because if you do see a
champion loss if you see acquisitions
you you'll have holes that you want to
fit and those are great opportunities to
bring in new customers and allow them to
join a great program
cool so wrapping up i just want to give
you four key takeaways
one remember to invest that time with
your internal stakeholders build your
foundation on the right foot you won't
be able to get anywhere without it
two write your bible
document it in a charter allow them to
be or allow the charter to be explicit
with your intentions and what you want
to commit so you can entice folks to
join you on the journey
three ensure your meetings are mutually
beneficial
you want this to be
as engaging as possible so that at the
end of the year you're left with cab
members that are excited for the next
year and then year after that
lastly refract and reiterate throughout
the year if you're focused on improving
the high quality or the quality of your
cab then that your company
the company's quality will also improve
and if your company's quality will
improve it's going to drive more
business growth for you and your
customers and at the end that's all what
we're really here for right
[Music]
you